---
layout: post
title: "New Repo: Bittorrent Sync on 64 bit Linux"
description: "Quick, dirty and hopefully useful"
category: personal
tags:
- announcement
- tech
---
{% include JB/setup %}
I use "Bittorrent Sync":http://labs.bittorrent.com/experiments/sync.html on a lot of my machines to keep several directories in sync. In fact, after being satisfied with Dropbox for a while, I tried nearly everything there is in synchronization. ownCloud was overkill for what I wanted and did not offer decentralized sync. I prefer a solution where devices in the same LAN will sync first, before using the slower connection over the internet. Dropbox could do that. Simple rsync and self-built solutions simply did not scale. Sparkleshare does not really work for my mostly binary files because it keeps a complete history. Git-annex is a beauty, but it does not work automatically and doesn't really fit the usecase of many rapidly changing small binary files.
BTSync is lacking a webinterface for quick file edits, but it is fast, decentralized and still relatively lightweight.
The "new repository":https://github.com/heichblatt/btsync mainly consists of a Makefile. After running @make@, you get three things:
It downloads the newest 64 bit binary to @/usr/bin@. It then copies a simple init script to @/etc/init.d@ and puts the current user's name "in it":https://github.com/heichblatt/btsync/blob/master/init.d/btsync#L4. You can put more names in there, if necessary. Upon boot, the script iterates over the list and starts a @btsync@ daemon for every user in it. The individual processes are parameterized with the user's config file, found in @~/.sync/config.json@. The Makefile will generate the default version and change (in the current version) three settings:
* The device id.
* The base directory for BTSync's data. @~/.sync@
* The daemon won't listen on 0.0.0.0:8888 but only on localhost:8888. I cannot imagine why the first got to be the default.
All of this is relatively simple and as soon as I get to it, I will build actual Debian packages. Also, it should be easy to make this architecture-independent.
