---
layout: post
title: "Productivity"
tagline: "TODO"
category: personal
tags: [comment]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
h2. People I learned from

I wanted to jot down a few quick points about productivity, which has been one of my interests for quite some time.
I have been a long time follower of "Cal Newport's blog":http://calnewport.com/blog/ (medium-length introductory talk to his main points "here":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwOdU02SE0w) and his motto (taken "from Steve Martin":http://calnewport.com/blog/2008/02/01/the-steve-martin-method-a-master-comedians-advice-for-becoming-famous/): _Be so good they can't ignore you._
Also, like nearly everyone who has ever come near the topic of productivity in IT, I have been using my own kind of "GTD-like":https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_Things_Done workflow and I would recommend Allen's approach when looking for a good place to start.
Aaron Swartz's "post on the topic":http://www.aaronsw.com/weblog/productivity has brought me some insight, for example not all kinds of activity having the same priority:

bq. my list is programming, writing, thinking, errands, reading, listening, and watching (in that order).

His words have stayed with me over the weeks since I've read them first. I admire their brevity, simplicity and clarity.
Let's not forget Lars Wirzenius' "GTD for Hackers":http://gtdfh.branchable.com/. It's a well-written description of a GTD implementation, giving a practical introduction to the topic.

h2. Tools I use

* *Redmine* for everything larger than three items or running longer than a week.
* A *notebook* for errands and quickly write down whatever is thrown at me.
* *E-mails to myself* for longer ideas when on the move.
* *Online calendar* for everything that has a concrete date attached to it.
* *feed2imap* for fetching a selected few RSS feeds and delivering them to a special mailbox.
* *Instapaper* for postponing interesting articles for later reading when skimming through said mailbox.
* An *e-book reader* to actually consume the postponed articles and mark relevant passages.
* *Zotero* for organizing academic texts and bibliographies and larger topical text collections.
